Indexing reasons
The following reasons can be shown for non-indexing, or for problematic indexing, in the Page indexing report:

Not indexed
These pages have not been indexed, but not necessarily because of an error. Read the specific description to see if this is an error that you should address.

Server error (5xx)
Your server returned a 500-level error when the page was requested. See Fixing server errors.

Redirect error
Google experienced one of the following redirect errors:

A redirect chain that was too long
A redirect loop
A redirect URL that eventually exceeded the max URL length
A bad or empty URL in the redirect chain
Use a web debugging tool such as Lighthouse to get more details about the redirect.

URL blocked by robots.txt
This page was blocked by your site's robots.txt file. You can verify this using the robots.txt tester. Note that this does not guarantee that the page won't be indexed through some other means. If Google can find other information about this page without loading it, there is a very small chance that the page might still be indexed. To ensure that a page is not indexed by Google, remove the robots.txt block and use a 'noindex' directive.

URL marked ‘noindex’
When Google tried to index the page it encountered a 'noindex' directive and therefore did not index it. If you do not want this page indexed, congratulations! If you do want this page to be indexed, you should remove the 'noindex' directive.

To confirm the problem:

Click the inspection icon  next to the URL in the table.
Under Coverage > Indexing > Indexing allowed? the report should show that noindex is preventing indexing. You can search the page source or response headers for the word "noindex".
Confirm that the noindex tag still exists in the live version:
Clicking Test live URL
Under Availability > Indexing > Indexing allowed? see if the noindex directive is still detected. If noindex is no longer present, you can click Request Indexing to ask Google to try again to index the page. If noindex is still present, you must remove it in order for the page to be indexed.
If you want this page to be indexed, you must remove the tag or HTTP header.
Soft 404
The page request returns what we think is a soft 404 response. This means that it returns a user-friendly "not found" message but not a 404 HTTP response code. We recommend returning a 404 response code for truly "not found" pages and adding more information on the page to let us know that it is not a soft 404. To see how Google sees the page, run a live URL inspection test against the page and click View tested page to see a screenshot showing how Google renders the page. Learn how to fix a soft 404.

Blocked due to unauthorized request (401)
The page was blocked to Googlebot by a request for authorization (401 response). If you do want Googlebot to be able to index this page, either remove authorization requirements for this page, or else allow Googlebot to access your pages by verifying its identity. You can verify this error by visiting the page in incognito mode.

Not found (404)
This page returned a 404 error when requested. Google discovered this URL without any explicit request or sitemap. Google might have discovered the URL as a link from another page, or possibly the page existed before and was deleted. Googlebot will probably continue to try this URL for some period of time; there is no way to tell Googlebot to permanently forget a URL, although it will crawl it less and less often. 404 responses are not necessarily a problem, if the page has been removed without any replacement. If your page has moved, use a 301 redirect to the new location. See Fixing 404 errors

Blocked due to access forbidden (403)
HTTP 403 means that the user agent provided credentials, but was not granted access. However, Googlebot never provides credentials, so your server is returning this error incorrectly. The page will not be indexed.

If you do want Googlebot to index this page, you should either admitting non-signed-in users or explicitly allow Googlebot requests without authentication (though you should verify its identity).

URL blocked due to other 4xx issue
The server encountered a 4xx error not covered by any other issue type described here. Try debugging your page using the URL Inspection tool.

Crawled - currently not indexed
The page was crawled by Google but not indexed. It may or may not be indexed in the future; no need to resubmit this URL for crawling.

Discovered - currently not indexed
The page was found by Google, but not crawled yet. Typically, Google wanted to crawl the URL but this was expected to overload the site; therefore Google rescheduled the crawl. This is why the last crawl date is empty on the report.

Alternate page with proper canonical tag
This page is marked as an alternate of another page (that is, an AMP page with a desktop canonical, or a mobile version of a desktop canonical, or the desktop version of a mobile canonical). This page correctly points to the canonical page, which is indexed, so there is nothing you need to do. Alternate language pages are not detected by Search Console.

Duplicate without user-selected canonical
This page is a duplicate of another page, although it doesn't indicate a preferred canonical page. Google has chosen the other page as the canonical for this page, and so will not serve this page in Search. You can Inspect this URL to see which URL Google considers canonical for this page.

This is not an error, but is working as intended, because Google does not serve duplicate pages. However, if you think that Google has chosen the wrong URL as canonical, you can explicitly mark the canonical for this page. Alternately, if you think that this page is not a duplicate of the Google-chosen canonical, you should ensure that the content differs substantially between the two pages.

Duplicate, Google chose different canonical than user
This page is marked as canonical for a set of pages, but Google thinks another URL makes a better canonical. Google has indexed the page that we consider canonical rather than this one.

Inspect this URL to see the Google-selected canonical URL under Page indexing > Google-selected canonical.
Look at the canonical you chose under Page indexing > User-declared canonical.
In your browser, look at the current page, the user-declared canonical, and the Google-selected canonical.
This error means that Google thinks that the tested page isn't a duplicate of the user-declared canonical. Instead, Google thinks that the tested page is a duplicate of the Google-selected canonical.
If the Google-selected canonical is the tested page, then Google thinks that the tested page isn't similar to any other pages.
If the user-declared canonical is not similar to the current page, then Google won't ever choose that URL as canonical. A duplicate page must be similar to the canonical. (That's what duplicate means.)
Page with redirect
This is a non-canonical URL that redirects to another page. As such, this URL will not be indexed. The target URL of the redirect might or might not be indexed, depending on what Google thinks about that target URL.

A canonical URL with a redirect can be indexed.

If you view this URL in the URL Inspection report, the indexed information applies to the tested URL (ignoring any redirects). To see the index status of the canonical URL associated with this URL (the URL that is in the Google Index), click the INSPECT button in the Page indexing > Indexing section of the report.

The live URL Inspection test follows redirects and then tests the final URL, although the live test doesn't indicate that it is following a redirect.

Warning
Warnings are listed in the Improve page experience table on the summary page of the Page indexing report. These issues don't prevent a page from being indexed, but they do reduce Google's ability to understand and index your pages.

Indexed, though blocked by robots.txt
The page was indexed despite being blocked by your website's robots.txt file. Google always respects robots.txt, but this doesn't necessarily prevent indexing if someone else links to your page. Google won't request and crawl the page, but we can still index it, using the information from the page that links to your blocked page. Because of the robots.txt rule, any snippet shown in Google Search results for the page will probably be very limited.

Next steps:

If you do want to block this page from Google Search, robots.txt is not the correct mechanism to avoid being indexed. To avoid being indexed, remove the robots.txt block and use 'noindex'.
If you do not want to block this page, update your robots.txt file to unblock your page. You can use the robots.txt tester to determine which rule is blocking this page.
Page indexed without content
This page appears in the Google index, but for some reason Google could not read the content. Possible reasons are that the page might be cloaked to Google or the page might be in a format that Google can't index. This is not a case of robots.txt blocking. Inspect the page, and look at the Coverage section for details.

Indexed
You can see your indexed URL count in the graph on the summary page. You can see an example list of URLs and more information about them by clicking View data about indexed pages below the graph.

Page is indexed
The page has been indexed successfully. However, it might have other issues that should be addressed, such as structured data issues. Any other issues will be described in the appropriate section in the URL Inspection report.